- [Instructor] Let's dive deeper into how collections
rely upon object comparison using a code example
based on our car analogy.
To help with that, I built a car class that has fields
for the make, the model, and the mileage of the car.
You'll also find class members like a constructor
and a to string method.
Now, I've also built a unit test that contains methods
which test out the collection methods that we talked about
that rely upon comparison.
To build the test,
I have a setup method that runs before each test.
In this method, it creates a collection of cars,
and then it creates three cars,
a Subaru, a Tesla, and a Honda.
Then these three cars are placed in the collection.
So essentially, the collections reset with each test.
I also added a tear down method
that's going to print out the collection
after we run the test so that we can see what happen.
Now, what we really are concerned with
are these three tests.
So I've added one test that is going to remove
two of the cars so that will leave one remaining
and I'll check that via an assertion.
The next test will check that our collection
contains all three cars.
And then the final test is going to remove all of the cars
and check that we have an empty collection.
Now, if you look at these tests,
you'll notice that I vary how I use the car objects.
In some cases,
I have a reference to the exact car in memory.
So for example, on lines 65 and 66,
I have the exact instance of the car
that we put into the collection.
Now, in other areas of the test,
I actually instantiate a new car
that is logically equivalent using a value-based comparison
with a car that's found in our collection.
So right now, if I go ahead and I run these unit tests,
you're going to see that they fail.
And that's because of the way
we're performing the comparison.
Right now, when the remove method is called,
it's using an identity-based comparison
as opposed to the value-based comparison
we would like to use.
The same is true with the other methods
that we invoke in these tests and that's why they fail.
This is because we haven't overridden the equals method
in the car class.
Right now, the car class is leveraging
the equals implementation that it inherits from object.
And you can see it here.
It's using the equality operator
to perform an identity-based comparison
and that's what's causing our test to fail.
So let's switch our car class over
to use a value-based comparison
by overriding the equals method.
Now, to do that,
we can use the capabilities found within the Eclipse IDE.
So just right-click within the class, then go to source
and then you'll find generate HashCode and equals.
Now, you'll notice HashCode is included there too.
That's because there's some rules in the Java doc
that say we must override HashCode when we override equals.
We're not going to get into that right now.
We'll talk about it when we discuss hashing strategies.
Just for now, know it's really important to follow the rule.
Okay, so go ahead, click on that option,
and this is going to bring up a dialog
where we can select the fields that are going to be used
in our value-based comparison.
Now, when you select these fields,
you want to pick fields that don't change frequently.
So the make and the model,
they are excellent candidates for our equals method,
but the mileage, that's going to change daily
so we want to omit that in our value-based comparison.
Okay, once you have those selected,
go ahead and hit generate,
and this will generate the HashCode and equals method
inside of our car class.
Now, I'm going to come down here
to the equals implementation that was generated for us.
In the Java docs,
it says that this method must be reflexive,
symmetric, transitive, and consistent.
That's a lot.
Just know that if you use the IDE's capabilities,
you don't have to worry about that.
But if you're writing your own equals implementation,
you should probably take a look at the Java docs
and do your homework.
Now, inside of this method,
I'm actually going to log some information to the console
so that we can see the value-based comparison be performed.
So I'll cast the object to a car
and then I'm going to use the format method
on the print stream to print out
the make and the model of each of the objects.
So there I have my string set up.
Now let's pass the arguments into it.
First, the make of the current object instance,
then the model of the current object instance,
and then we'll look
at the make of the object we're comparing
and the model of the object we're comparing.
Okay, so let me just tidy that up
and then we're going to save that
and now head over to our unit test.
I'm going to go ahead right-click, go to run as JUnit test,
and this time,
you'll notice using the value-based comparison,
our test pass.
Let's take a look at the console output.
You'll notice that when we run the contains test,
the equals method was invoked multiple times
to perform the comparison.
Okay, let's scroll down here to the remove test.
It's kind of easy to see what happened in this one.
You'll notice the value-based comparison with equals
was invoked multiple times.
And using that,
the collection was able to remove the other two cars
and we only have the Tesla remaining.
So once we switched from the identity-based comparison
to the value-based comparison,
that allowed methods on our collection,
like remove, contains, and remove all to function properly.
And that's why our unit tests were successful.